## Ten Strategies for GRE
### Get to Know the Test 
As simple as this may sound, many students often tend to neglect this part of their GRE test prep. It always makes sense to get to know the test first, and then figure out how to crack it. So, if you are looking to score very high on a timed test like the GRE, you need to know everything about it, in and out. You need to know what sort of questions you will face on test day, what and how many topics you will have to learn. Learn more about the test format, and understand what you will have to deal with, during the next few weeks of study.
### Set a Realistic Target Score
Setting a target always helps, because you always have a benchmark in your mind that you are consciously or unconsciously keeping track of. Now, it is completely fine even if you are not targeting a huge score of 330+, but even if your target is 315 or 305, always set a target and keep it in mind. Keep comparing your practice test scores with your target score and measure how far you have come along, and how far you have to go. If it helps, write your target score on a sticky notes or chart papers and stick them all over your room.
### Make Your Own Study Plan
It is important that you create your own study plan, even though there are dozens of plans available online. The reason being, you know yourself bettand it is you who knows how busy you are throughout the week, or how confident you are right now, or how much time it would take for you to master the entire Verbal section, for example. So, it is better if you can try and create your own study plan, based on several factors that affect you and your schedule. Of course, you can use the standard study plans you find online, as frameworks, and then make necessary changes as you see fit.er than anyone else in the world.
### Review the Basics
Reviewing the basic concepts is a very crucial part of your test prep, especially when it comes to math. Even though you may have scored high on the diagnostic test, it is in your best interest to review everything starting from scratch, unless you have already studied the concepts very recently, or unless you are retaking the test. Again, this also depends on how much prep time you can afford to spend, and how much time you have before your test day. Our suggestion is that, if you have a lot of time – say at least six to eight weeks – before you sit for the test, you should start reviewing the basics before you take the plunge.
### Focus on your weaknesses
Two things don’t allow students to focus on their weak areas. One, it might seem very tempting to keep on solving problems you can easily solve, and two, you are scared of failure whenever you attempt to study difficult topics that you are not very confident of. But the fact is, if you want a score anywhere close to 330, your strengths alone cannot take you there. You cannot afford to ignore your weaknesses if you are aiming to score sky high on the GRE. Always make a study plan around your weaknesses, and keep working on them periodically.
### Learn vocabulary in Context
Lots of students waste their time every year trying to learn the GRE vocab by heart. There is no point in learning words by heart, because one, it is going to take the long time; two, you are going to forget it anyway; and three, it defeats the very purpose. Instead, you would be happy to realize how easy it is to lean vocabulary in context, and how studying this way, you can remember words for a long, long time.
### Study Consistently 
Studying consistently and on a regular basis is a lot better than studying with gaps in the middle. Make sure you devise a study plan keeping in mind your semester exams, thesis submissions, and other family obligations, because a good prep requires constant study and regular monitoring. Just make sure you don’t have a lot of gaps in the middle, as these can turn out to be hiccups in your prep, and you will forget some of the concept you have learnt previously.
### Maintain Error Log
Error logs are probably one of your best friends during your GRE prep. If you try and use the error log effectively for a while, you will be able to see a distinctive pattern of the mistakes you make and the areas you make them in. Believe it or not, the error log will be your best teacher! You can only get a higher score when you know if you are improving constantly or not. It is quite easy to create an error log; it can be anything, but an excel file would be the most preferred option, since it is easier to not only use, but also make changes in the future. Make an excel sheet with the entire list of topics you are going to study in the next few months: Algebra, Geometry, Text Completion, etc. And write down your confidence levels in the next column, on a scale of 1 to 5 with 5 being ‘very confident’ and 1 being ‘clueless’.
### Review Wrong Answers Thoroughly
If you get a question wrong, you need to be extremely vigilant about it, especially since you wouldn’t want to repeat the same mistake next time around. When you make a mistake, don’t read the explanation immediately. Try to solve it on your own. Review all material with a pen and paper in hand.
So, whenever you get a question wrong in the practice tests, take time to review each and every question, and make sure you review it properly, including finding out the reason why you couldn’t get it right. You must understand why the correct answer choice is right and why the wrong choices are wrong. This exercise may seem boring or repetitive, but it will help you avoid mistakes in the future.
### Read the Explanations 
If you have enough time for the test, you should really try to read the explanations provided in the OG to all the questions. This will help you carefully analyze your mistakes, and also to understand how to think about an answering strategy to a particular question. ETS likes to test the same patterns over and over again in their tests, and if you are perfectly prepared to the patterns previously tested, it will definitely help you on test day. In fact, you will be surprised to know how many of the quant problems you will see on test day, would be replicas of problems you solved in the OG.

[10 ways to raise your score in GRE](https://meroexam.com/blog/10-ways-to-raise-your-score-in-GRE)